# Burning Buddy

The Burning Buddy demonstrates using the CPB's Bluetooth and onboard Temperature Sensor, as well as the Bluefruit App.

The Burning Buddy is facetious fire safety device to help alert its users if another wearer of the device may be in distress due to an active fire. The device consists of a glove with an attached CPB and power supply. A user can determine the temperature of an object such as a door handle using the CPB's onboard temperature sensor by simply holding the device up to the object. If say a door handle is too hot to touch, the CPB will flash red and play a sharp tone twice. A user can also signal to other nearby users if they are in distress by pressing either of the onboard buttons, which will initiate a Bluetooth distress signal and display a blinking red light that traverses the CPB's onboard neopixels in a circular fashion. If another user is range and picks up the distress signal, their CPB will start pulsating red and play a repetitive tone until the distress signal is either accepted or declined by pressing onboard button A or B, respectively. If one user accepts another user's distress signal, neopixels on both users' CPBs will light up the same color. The CPB on the glove of the user who sent the distress signal will then continuously send the temperature data from the onboard temperature sensor to the user who accepted the distress signal. The user who accepted the distress signal can view the other user's temperature by connecting to the CPB with the Bluefruit App. In the app, real time temperature data can be viewed using the UART monitor and the Plotter.

The onboard temperature sensor is a resistance thermometer, or thermistor, whose resistance changes with temperature. This is an example of an analog input, similar to a potentiometer or stretch sensor. The CPBs communicate using a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) service that simulates UART, which is a form of serial communication.
