# Burning Buddy

The Burning Buddy demonstrates using the CPB's Bluetooth and onboard Temperature Sensor, as well as an external GPS and Bluefruit App.

The Burning Buddy is facetious fire safety device to help alert its users if another wearer of the device may be in distress due to an active fire. The device consists of a glove with an attached CPB and GPS module. A user can determine the temperature of an object such as a door handle using the CPB's onboard temperature sensor by simply holding the device up to the object. If say a door handle is too hot to touch, the CPB will flash red and play a sharp tone twice. A user can also signal to other nearby users if they are in distress by pressing either of the onboard buttons, which will initiate a Bluetooth distress signal and display a blinking red light that traverses the CPB's onboard neopixels in a circular fashion. If another user is range and picks up the distress signal, their CPB will start pulsating red and play a repetitive tone until the distress signal is either accepted or declined by pressing onboard button A or B, respectively. If one user accepts another user's distress signal, neopixels on both users' CPBs will light up the same color. The CPB on the glove of the user who sent the distress signal will then continuously send the temperature data from the onboard temperature sensor and GPS coordinates from the external GPS to the user who accepted the distress signal. The user who accepted the distress signal can view the other user's temperature and location by connecting to the CPB with the Bluefruit App. In the app, real time temperature and location data can be viewed using the UART monitor and the Plotter.

The onboard temperature sensor is a resistance thermometer, or thermistor, whose resistance changes with temperature. This is an example of an analog input, similar to a potentiometer or stretch sensor. The external GPS communicates with the CPB via UART, which is a type of serial communication. The GPS modules is wired to the CPB by connecting the 3.3V and GND pads on the GPS to 3.3V and GND pads on the CPB, respectively, and by connecting TX on the GPS to RX on the CPB and RX on the GPS to TX on the CPB.
